feat(blog): Messing Up (#433)
b2io/base2.io: _content/posts/2019-12-30-messing-up.md

---
title: Joining a Team - Messing Up
author: khansen
date: '2019-12-30T04:00:00.000Z'
path: '/2019/12/30/messing-up'
---

> ![dropped ice cream cone](https://i.imgur.com/zwRn3LV.jpg)

Reviewer: Starting this with an image causes the summary to be a bit weird (see below).

Consider re-writing the beginning of this as 

```
Recently, I’ve spent a lot of time reading blogs about how to rebound after various degrees of messing up. As the team’s resident newbie, I’ve messed up in an impressive variety of ways.

<!-- end excerpt -->

![dropped ice cream cone](https://i.imgur.com/zwRn3LV.jpg)
```

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2048050/71624781-50eb6a80-2bb2-11ea-916c-3987e9210be9.png)

Author: nice catch!

Recently, I’ve spent a lot of time reading blogs about how to rebound after various degrees of messing up. As the team’s resident newbie, I’ve messed up in an impressive variety of ways.

I wanted to share some of the information that I’ve collected over the last month or so, and share some simple fixes as to what has worked for me.

> I read an article somewhere along the way that said something to the effect of “embrace public embarrassment as an opportunity to learn”. As many of us are using Github collaboratively and publicly, there is no truer lesson. What prompted the idea for this article happened on an ordinary day. I was working on a rather complicated issue that involved about a dozen only semi-related issues. I had pushed about 35 WIP (Work in Progress) commits before I realized that I had royally messed up and had no idea how to untangle the proverbial ball of yarn I had managed to wrap around myself.

Reviewer 2: ❓ Capitalize the 'h' in "GitHub" too, probably?

Here are a few lessons that I’ve learned, how I’ve adapted my working style, and some fixes that I now use regularly.

This article assumes you are using git locally, GitHub, and a text editor.

> ### SCENARIO ONE: Pass me that remote Master

Reviewer 2: ❓  

```suggestion
### SCENARIO ONE: Pass me that remote, Master
```

> The remote Master has changed since I’ve started my branch.

Reviewer 2: ❓ 
```suggestion
The remote master branch has changed since I first branched off of it.
```

We’ll start with the easy one. You’re working along nicely when all of a sudden you wake up and realize that you’re no longer a solo dev, you are working with a team and other people have made some changes that you’d like to have reflected into your branch.

> The easiest tactic that I’ve found is to rebase with master. Git steps are as follows:

Reviewer 2: 🤔 Rebasing is used to re-write the commit history: to change commit messages, to omit specific commits, or to combine multiple commits into one.

It's true that, because you rebase against another branch, you merge your branch with that other branch.

Still, I think that it'd be better to recommend that people use `git merge` to solve the problem that you're outlining. Rebase can create messy problems that are hard to fix. I'd personally recommend that you use `git merge` here instead of `rebase`.

The steps that I use are roughly:

1. I'm working on my branch and I realize that I need to pull in the latest from the master branch
1. `git checkout master`
1. `git pull`
1. `git checkout <my-branch>`
1. `git merge master`
1. Resolve any merge conflicts just as you would during a `git rebase`

Author: This is interesting!  This is what I used to do until recently :) Thanks!

Make sure you are on your working branch.

```
git fetch origin
git rebase origin/master
```

There is a much more complicated explanation of rebasing located [here](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Branching-Rebasing), but [this stack overflow solution](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/20101994/git-pull-from-master-into-the-development-branch/20103414) has a permanent chrome tab open these days.

### SCENARIO TWO: Commit removal

That Last Commit was Garbage! Get me back to a previous commit!

We are so lucky that the internet is vast and full of awesome information. However, finding out how to revert a commit was a real challenge for me. This scenario has also helped me figure out a better working system to avoid having to publicly revert commits on our remote repo.

[This](https://code.likeagirl.io/how-to-undo-the-last-commit-393e7db2840b) is my favorite article on the issue, and has helped me out more times than I can count.

> Hopefully you have been working on a branch, and wether you have just pushed your changes locally or to your remote repo, you can decide how you want to approach the fix. If you have not committed anything that is worth saving, a simple `git reset —hard` can get rid of all of your most recent changes. If you are are not so lucky and have pushed a commit that you want to get rid of, you need to get the hash name of the commit you want to revert.

Reviewer 2: :pencil2: Tiny typo. And maybe it's worth spelling out "repository"? Makes it more beginner-friendly to not just too much lingo probably.

⚠️ There needs to be two dashes in front of the `--hard` flag. It looks like maybe these got converted to a long dash at some point along the way.

```suggestion
Hopefully you have been working on a branch, and whether you have just pushed your changes locally or to your remote repository, you can decide how you want to approach the fix. If you have not committed anything that is worth saving, a simple `git reset --hard` can get rid of all of your most recent changes. If you are are not so lucky and have pushed a commit that you want to get rid of, you need to get the hash name of the commit you want to revert.
```

> Hopefully you have been working on a branch, and wether you have just pushed your changes locally or to your remote repo, you can decide how you want to approach the fix. If you have not committed anything that is worth saving, a simple `git reset —hard` can get rid of all of your most recent changes. If you are are not so lucky and have pushed a commit that you want to get rid of, you need to get the hash name of the commit you want to revert.

Reviewer: "whether you have just ~pushed~ committed your changes locally or pusehd to your remote repository"

> To get the commit hash, I run `git log —oneline` to produce a simplified listing of commits.

Reviewer 2: ⚠️ Probably need the extra slash here.

```suggestion
To get the commit hash, I run `git log --oneline` to produce a simplified listing of commits.
```

I’ve learned the hard way that it’s very important to test out the commit that you want to revert to before making any changes. To do so, `git checkout <commit number>`

If that is in fact the commit that you would like to revert to, type in `git revert <commit number>`. For more details about this procedure, please check out Isabel Costa’s awesome article linked above. She does a great job simply explaining this revert process.

Now, if there are several commits that you want to undo, or they are further up in your list, you can cherry-pick what you would like to remove using `git rebase -i` which will open a list of your commits in your text editor. You can then go through and change the ‘pick’ string to ‘squash’ to combine any commits that you would like to squash. There are other options as well to remove commits completely. This tactic isn’t recommended, as it will change the history of your documentation. See above about public embarrassment being a good thing. For more information about interactive rebasing, I’ve followed [this blog post](https://github.blog/2015-06-08-how-to-undo-almost-anything-with-git/) with moderate success.

> Since this is such a process, I’ve since adapted my working style to push to the remote (public) repo only when I am super confident about a change. I save my WIP commits locally only, until I’m sure they are working. I can then do a `git reset —hard` to revert any testing or changes that I’m not so sure of, without anyone being the wiser.

Reviewer 2: Double dash

```suggestion
Since this is such a process, I’ve since adapted my working style to push to the remote (public) repo only when I am super confident about a change. I save my WIP commits locally only, until I’m sure they are working. I can then do a `git reset --hard` to revert any testing or changes that I’m not so sure of, without anyone being the wiser.
```

### SCENARIO THREE: Wrong Commit Message

Can you mess up literally everything? Even a commit message?? I can.

I’ve been in the situation where I’ve typed some commit message like WIP: fix <wrong component name> . Not the end of the world, but certainly embarrassing.

If this happened to be your last commit message, in your console type

> `git commit —amend`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`git commit --amend`
```

A message amendment page will open in you text editor. You can edit the message on the first line, which should be your mistake. Once you save and close that file, your message should be changed when you next push to git.
![VSCode message](https://i.imgur.com/HywlDg8.png)

> If you have noticed that your message on an older commit needs to be changed, [Check out this article.](https://help.github.com/en/github/committing-changes-to-your-project/changing-a-commit-message)

Reviewer 2: :pencil2:
```suggestion
If you need to change an older commit message, [check out this article.](https://help.github.com/en/github/committing-changes-to-your-project/changing-a-commit-message)
```

### ULTIMATE FAIL: All Hope is Lost

> Sometimes you just have to throw in the towel and start fresh. I know I’m not the first one to abandon a branch. But how do you handle having work in a branch that you have to abandon that you want to keep?

Reviewer 2: :pencil2:
```suggestion
Sometimes you just have to throw in the towel and start fresh. I know I’m not the first one to abandon a branch. But what if there's some work in that branch that you want to keep?
```

> I was feeling very clever when I started using GitLens in VSCode to compare a new branch with an older branch that I have already committed. If you already use GitLens, you can click on the little icon on the left of your IDE pane, and select “compare”. You can then select your current (new) branch file and compare it to an older branch before you trash it. You can see the file diff the same way you can on GitHub, without publicly pushing a branch if you are not ready.

Reviewer 2: ❓ Maybe add a hyperlink to the GitLens homepage?

```suggestion
I was feeling very clever when I started using [GitLens](https://gitlens.amod.io/) in VSCode to compare a new branch with an older branch that I have already committed. If you already use GitLens, you can click on the little icon on the left of your IDE pane, and select “compare”. You can then select your current (new) branch file and compare it to an older branch before you trash it. You can see the file diff the same way you can on GitHub, without publicly pushing a branch if you are not ready.
```

![GitLens icon](https://i.imgur.com/XYd1H34.png)

![GitLens compare pane](https://i.imgur.com/PYKj0aY.png)

Although GitLens is awesome for a variety of reasons, VSCode has this ability built in as well. In your file listing pane, if you select two files and right click, you will be given an option of ‘compare selected’ that will show the diff as well.

---

> There are countless ways to mess up and to fix screw ups using git and GitHub. As a new team member, I learn new ways of problem solving, trouble shooting, and fixing errors almost every day. As a perfectionist, it’s hard to take these lessons as not moments of defeat, but as par for the course of development. If you are reading this article, you might have found yourself in the same boat that I had, so let’s give a special shout out to GitHub for saving us with it’s awesome version control!

Reviewer 2: ❓ Maybe give a shout out to both Git and GitHub? Technically Git is the version control system. GitHub is the web platform, code hosting, etc.

```suggestion
There are countless ways to mess up and to fix screw ups using Git and GitHub. As a new team member, I learn new ways of problem solving, trouble shooting, and fixing errors almost every day. As a perfectionist, it’s hard to take these lessons as not moments of defeat, but as par for the course of development. If you are reading this article, you might have found yourself in the same boat that I had, so let’s give a special shout out to Git for saving us with it’s awesome version control!
```

Author: Thanks for clarification, I'd always thought that git was lowercase bcause it was native to operating systems and not a brand, I didn't realize it was capitalized.  I agree in giving both their dues! Thanks!
